Copilot Assistant Copilot App (Microservice): Serves as the central hub for processing user requests. It's a spring boot application implementing a vertical multi-agent architectures using langchain4j to create Agents equipped with tools. in Java the Agent Router to understand user intent from chat interactions and routes the request to the appropriate domain-specific agent.

Supervisor Agent: Acts as a user proxy, interpreting user intent based on chat inputs and directing the request to the specific domain agent. This component ensures that user queries are efficiently handled by the relevant agent. Agents are engaged byt the supervisor in a single turn conversation meaning that only one is selected by the supervisor to answer to user task. It’s just doing routing logic, assuming the domain agent will either carry-on the task in one shot or will involve user feedback if data oversight or action approval (like payment submit) is required.

Account Agent: Specializes in handling tasks related to banking account information, credit balance, and registered payment methods. It leverages specific Account service APIs to fetch and manage account-related data. Semantic Kernel HTTP plugin is used to create a tool definition from the rest api yaml contract (Open API specification) and automatically call the HTTP endpoint with input parameters extracted by gpt4 model from the chat conversation.

Transactions Agent: Focuses on tasks related to querying user bank movements, including income and outcome payments. This agent accesses account api to retrieve accountid and transaction history service to search for transactions and present them to the user.

Payments Agent: Dedicated to managing tasks related to submitting payments. It interacts with multiple APIs and tools, such as ScanInvoice (backed by Azure Document Intelligence), Account Service to retrieve account and payment methods info, Payment Service to submit payment processing and Transaction History service to check for previous paid invoices.

Existing Business APIs: Interfaces with the backend systems to perform operations related to personal banking accounts, transactions, and invoice payments. These APIs are implemented as external spring boot microservices providing the necessary data and functionality consumed by agents to execute their tasks. They are exposed both as traditional RESTs API and as MCP tools (spring-ai-mcp) to be consumed by agents.

Account Service (Microservice): Provides functionalities like retrieving account details by username, fetching payment methods, and getting registered beneficiaries. This microservice supports all 3 agents.

Payments Service (Microservice): Offers capabilities to submit payments and notify transactions. It is a critical component for the Payments Agent to execute payment-related tasks efficiently.

Reporting Service (Microservice): Enables searching transactions and retrieving transactions by recipient. This service supports the Transactions Agent in providing detailed transaction reports to the user and the Payment Agent as it needs to check if an invoice has not been already paid.